---
extends: _layouts.post
title: Phase 3
date: 2022-02-25T01:44:03.735Z
---
24 February 2022

Kia ora parents and caregivers,





Phase 3: Letter for parents and whānau

New Zealand’s COVID-19 response continues amid much larger numbers of daily cases.

You may well have seen the headlines in the media about the numbers of cases being seen in schools. 

Please don’t be alarmed by this. It is only natural as cases in our community increase, they will 

appear in our school. We have really good systems in place to respond to this and to keep any 

spread of the virus – should it appear – to a minimum.





You may have seen Dr Jin Russell in the media [noting research from New South Wales about their ](<https://www.ncirs.org.au/sites/default/files/2022-02/NCIRS_NSW_Schools_COVID_Summary_Term_4_2021_Report - 18-02-2022_FINAL_1.pdf>)

[recent Omicron outbreak ](<https://www.ncirs.org.au/sites/default/files/2022-02/NCIRS_NSW_Schools_COVID_Summary_Term_4_2021_Report - 18-02-2022_FINAL_1.pdf>)showing that spread within the school setting is very low (less than 4% of 

cases at school infected someone else when at school). We have seen that in New Zealand too.





This is why we remain open at Red. It’s great for a child’s wellbeing and learning to be at school 

with their friends and school staff, and we have very good systems in place to keep everyone as 

safe as possible.





Your job remains the same, too: please continue to keep a really close watch of your whānau for 

anyone with symptoms. If unwell, please stay at home and get advice about getting a COVID-19 test.





With Phase 3 of the Omicron response, the key change is that it is only confirmed cases and their 

household contacts who need to self-isolate. Everyone else, including those who may have had close 

contact with the case but aren’t in the household, must continue to monitor really closely for any 

symptoms of COVID-19.





Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are now being used to diagnose COVID-19 as well as PCR tests. This means 

that you will get an almost immediate test result back if a RAT is used.





If anyone in your family is confirmed as having COVID-19, you will be asked to notify your close 

contacts yourself. Please get in touch with us as soon as you can if your child has tested positive 

for COVID-19.





Transmission of COVID-19 is still most likely to happen in your home – so please keep doing all 

those good things to keep your whānau safe. Wash your hands, get lots of fresh air, cover any 

coughs and sneezes, clean surfaces regularly, and seek advice if anyone is not feeling well. And 

please wear a mask when you are out and about. There is information online to help your family 

[prepare to isolate](https://covid19.govt.nz/prepare-and-stay-safe/preparing-to-self-isolate/) if you need to.





























The most important advice we can give to keep your whānau safe is to act as if you have COVID-19. 

More than a third of people who have COVID-19 will not have any symptoms if they have had three 

doses of the vaccine. Please think about who you visit and what health measures you can put in 

place to keep everyone as safe as possible.





Getting three doses of the vaccine will really help you to do that. Research has shown that 

compared with being unvaccinated, three doses of the vaccine will mean you are 67% less likely to 

be infected with Omicron and 97% less likely to get Delta. If you can’t get COVID you can’t pass it 

on.





Finally, we know how hard the impacts on COVID-19 have been for many families in New Zealand. If 

you know of a family in your community who is struggling, please encourage them to reach out for 

support for example to access food, medicine, or access financial support: [Help is available – ](https://covid19.health.nz/advice/help-available)

[COVID-19 Health Hub.](https://covid19.health.nz/advice/help-available)









































































If you have any concerns about sending your child to school, please do get in touch.  We are here 

to help.

All queries are to be sent to this email <mailto:covidresponse@ruapehu.school.nz>

























































































Ngā mihi manaakitanga

Marama Allen

Principal
