---
title: Uniform
date: 2021-01-07T09:16:51.084Z
---
We appreciate the expense and effort that parents and caregivers make in order to have students meet the college’s uniform standards. To assist us in maintaining this high standard, please go through the uniform requirements below carefully with your child to check that what they are wearing as uniform at is acceptable. Remember, skirts must be knee length, so please help us to enforce this. If you are in any doubt about issues to do with uniform, please contact the deans, at the College.

Uniform can be purchased online at <https://ruapehucollege.nzuniforms.com/> 

We have limited items at the school store, check with us first before purchasing online.

### Junior Uniform - To be worn by Year 9, 10 and 11

**Girls**

* School navy skirts
* White polo shirt short or long sleeved 
* Navy school jersey
* Black flat soled, shiny polishable leather lace up shoes with white ankle socks or **black** tights/stockings
* Black Roman sandals with **no** socks

**Boys**

* Plain navy school shorts or plain navy school trousers
* Navy polo shirt short or long sleeved or navy long sleeved skivvy
* School socks with shiny, polishable, flat soled leather black lace-up shoes. Black Roman sandals with **no** socks

#### Jacket

Black monogrammed college jacket or plain black jacket.

The black monogramed jacket is available from the school store. The new 3-layer soft shell jacket can be purchased online (no monogram)

### Senior Uniform

Additional items that may be worn with uniform

School jacket, plain long sleeved navy polar fleece, school hat – plain navy or black beanie or cap, school scarf – blue and white, Hair ties – white, navy blue or black, undershirts – navy for boys, white for girls (not long sleeved under short sleeved)

* Grey straight skirt
* White shirt, short or long sleeved and college tie
* Ruapehu College Senior jersey
* Black Roman sandals or black shiny polishable flat soled lace up shoes with white socks or black stockings/tights.
* Grey trousers
* Black shiny polishable flat soled lace up shoes.  School socks

#### Jacket

* Black monogrammed college jacket or plain black jacket

The black monogramed jacket is available from the school store. The new 3-layer soft shell jacket can be purchased online (no monogram)

## Uniform Price List

[Uniform price list 2022](https://res.cloudinary.com/ruapehu-college/image/upload/v1651631838/Ruapehu_College_uniform_price_list_tsizaz.pdf)
